meanwhile the UN is warning of
widespread famine in Gaza with one in
four people facing starvation as food
deliveries struggle to get through the
majority of Aid trucks cross through
Rafa on Egypt's border with Gaza but
heavy bombardment is hampering efforts
following us pressure Israel opened the
former Goods Crossing at km Shalom as
well as an inspection station at nitsana
both have been blocked by Israeli
protests at DW's Rebecca R reports now
from the port city of
ashdot this port should be processing
much needed food donations for Gaza but
it's not the Israeli government is in a
battle with unra the agency tasked with
Distributing the aid and has blocked its
passage shipping containers of rice
flour chickpeas and even cooking oil
enough to feed more than a million
people for about a month are stuck here
in the port city of ashd less than 70 km
from Rafa and the people who so
desperately need
it these people are making it even
harder for Aid to get through the group
of Israeli protesters are at the nitsana
border crossing with Egypt trying to
stop the trucks that are brought here
for Israeli
inspection French Israeli Rachel TWU was
among one of the first to take action
she helped form a group called Sav n and
says its support is
growing we started uh up a month ago we
were 40 50 people uh protesting now uh
we have the on the on our greatest day
we were 400 and it's been only 5
weeks they site Israeli media reports
that suggest a majority of the aid that
makes it into Gaza is diverted by Hamas
as the reason their movement began we
are basically blocking uh the
humanitarian Aid what I call the inh
humanitarian Aid that goes into Gaza and
falls into the hands of Hamas the
convoys include foods but it also
includes fuel the fuel is what is very
problematic for Israel we're fighting
Hamas and on the second hand we are
giving him the fuel to continue to fight
us to element the the tunnels the terror
tunnels the Iration system and the and
electricity in a statement to DW unra
says there's no evidence of systemic
diversion of Aid in Gaza by Hamas or any
other armed
groups Sav n claims to represent a
crosssection of Israeli Society but most
people at this protest wore distinct
clothing of far-right and religious
activists though surveys suggest
blocking Aid is a majority
opinion with International pressure on
the government to allow Aid in these
protesters say they're doing what the
government
can't everybody here here in Israel is
mourning the losses that we've had to
endure in Gaza and on the second hand
our government is giving International
giving in to International pressure and
is giving out the the humanitarian Aid
to our
enemy their attempts have proved
successful not in completely preventing
Aid transfer but certainly hampering its
flow somewhere between 1 and 200 trucks
full of Aid are supposed to come through
here get processed by the Israeli
authorities before heading back up to
Rafa and Crossing into Gaza we haven't
seen any be process today none have come
through the protest say though their
numbers are small it's because of them
that the crossing has been
closed a good day for the protesters who
say they'll keep up their Civil
Disobedience for as long as it takes
while they protest the situation for
civilians in Gaza gets more desperate by
the
day let's look at some of those points
with hea Tibi who leads the NGO care in
the Palestinian territories as she joins
us from ramala in the West Bank welcome
to DW um with we've now seen multiple
hospitals being hit by Israeli raids
where are civilians in Gaza now able to
receive medical
attention uh good morning dear
unfortunately um the situation in
general is very dire and when it comes
to the medical system it's even more and
more becoming more and more and more
difficult since months now uh we are uh
explaining that the situation is bad the
very last few hospitals
are being unfortunately affected Medical
Teams are affected we at care try to do
the mobile clinics what we do what we
call as mobile clinics so it's a tent
where you are receiving people who are
in need of medical support similar to
other actors but this is not enough it's
very very limited services that we can
provide and the number of those who have
uh imputed Parts is the biggest number
that we have seen ever in in Gaza
it never happened before this is
basically because of un being unable to
provide the medical services that they
require in normal days so now we appear
to have a deadline for a raid on Rafa
that appears to be less than three weeks
away what effect would an Israeli raid
have on an overcrowded City uh like
Rafa I'm afraid of even imagining what
this would look like on reality we have
seen what happened in the North in the
center and the problem is that this is
the most crowded area ever we have seen
over the last months and the potential
impact we have seen it before we expect
it to be much much bigger because
literally people are staying in the
streets there are no places for them to
be taking or seeking refuge in the in
the city um it's a it's a big chotic
situation in the in the South
specifically in rafah it's as my
colleague describe it it's a live live
nightmare that they live in reality but
it's a constant Nightmare and this is
what people are saying we are very
afraid of that because there are no
places to go to even rafah is not
suitable as a shelter place in its
current current specific moment it's not
suitable imagine what can happen if this
this is if the military actions The
Invasion takes place in three in three
weeks this is going to be very scary
Rafa is also where AID crosses into Gaza
is enough of that reaching civilians at
the
moment no it's not even closed not even
Clos to be enough uh it's very limited
now we are hearing about people from the
north the of course we don't have staff
there but some of our partners even our
partners most of them move to the South
but the very limit number who are
staying there to provide medical support
of course again not enough for the
people they are saying that there is
nothing to eat if they find any kind of
food it's extremely expensive and people
don't have money if you are lucky even
to find let's say a sack of flour it
will be mixed with other things that
they discover that it is not proper for
eating when they start baking it so
unfortunately this is the situation my
dear it's not enough we thank you for
your time and wish you well a hea tib
from the NGO Care thank
you thank
you